New Zealand Elevation - Registry of Open Data on AWS
New Zealand Elevation
cog
earth observation
elevation
geospatial
stac
Description
The New Zealand Elevation dataset consists of New Zealand's publicly owned digital elevation models and digital surface models, which are freely available to use under an open licence. The dataset contains 1m resolution grids derived from LiDAR data. Point clouds are not included in the initial release.All of the elevation files are
Cloud Optimised GeoTIFFs
using LERC compression for the main grid and LERC compression with lower max_z_error for the overviews. These elevation files are accompanied by
STAC metadata
. The elevation data is organised by region and survey.
Update Frequency
New elevation data will regularly be added, as part of being published to the LINZ Data Service and LINZ Basemaps.
License
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand does not own the copyright for all of the elevation data that is available in this bucket. Licensors are contained in the STAC Collection file accompanying each elevation data survey. Licensed for re-use under "
CC-BY-4.0
".
Documentation
https://github.com/linz/elevation
Managed By
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
See all datasets managed by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
.
Contact
elevation@linz.govt.nz
How to Cite
New Zealand Elevation was accessed on
DATE
from https://registry.opendata.aws/nz-elevation. Licensed by (insert the licensor) for re-use under
CC-BY-4.0
.
Usage Examples
Tutorials
Browsing the s3://nz-elevation bucket
by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
Elevation survey naming and path conventions
by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
Tools & Applications
LINZ Basemaps
by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
LINZ Data Service
by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
LINZ Topographic Workflows - Bulk elevation data processing with Kubernetes and Argo Workflows
by
Toitū Te Whenua Land Information New Zealand
Publications
Dairy farming exposure and impacts from coastal flooding and sea level rise in Aotearoa-New Zealand
by Heather Craig, Alec Wild and Ryan Paulik
Stress Detection in New Zealand Kauri Canopies with WorldView-2 Satellite and LiDAR Data
by Jane J. Meiforth, Henning Buddenbaum, Joachim Hill, James D. Shepherd and John R. Dymond
Underpinning Terroir with Data: Integrating Vineyard Performance Metrics with Soil and Climate Data to Better Understand Within-Region Variation in Marlborough, New Zealand
by R. G. V. Bramley, J. Ouzman, A. P. Sturman, G. J. Grealish, C. E. M. Ratcliff and M. C. T. Trought
Resources on AWS
Description
New Zealand Elevation with accompanying metadata
Resource type
S3 Bucket
Amazon Resource Name (ARN)
arn:aws:s3:::nz-elevation
AWS Region
ap-southeast-2
AWS CLI
Access (No AWS account required)
aws s3 ls --no-sign-request s3://nz-elevation/
Edit this dataset entry on GitHub
Tell us about your project
Home