MapTiler Cloud Terms and Conditions | MapTiler
MapTiler Cloud Terms and Conditions
These MapTiler Cloud Special Terms (“Special Terms”), alongside with General Terms located at:
https://www.maptiler.com/terms/
(“General Terms”), which are incorporated by reference govern the use of MapTiler Cloud, which is a service of MapTiler.
These documents are together referred to as “Terms.” Capitalized terms not defined here have the same meaning as defined in General Terms. In case of any conflict between the General Terms and these Special Terms, the Special Terms prevails.
Please read these terms carefully. If you don’t agree to the Terms, you may not use the Service.
1
.
Grant of License
Right To Use.
Subject to the Terms, MapTiler hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable license to use the MapTiler Cloud service (“Service”).
If the customer uses the Service in a way that is not covered under an active license, MapTiler reserves the right to suspend or terminate the customer's account and access to the Service, with or without notice.
Free Plan.
You may use the Free Plan within the limits specified. Usage of the Service beyond these limits may result in temporary suspension of the Service for your account.
Usage of the Free Plan is limited to non-commercial use and research & development for commercial products applications.
Details on the limitations to the Free Plan are specified at
https://www.maptiler.com/cloud/pricing/
.
Subscription Plans.
Features and extent of services provided within the Service depends on the chosen subscription plan.
The limitations to the subscription plans are specified at
https://www.maptiler.com/cloud/pricing/
.
Custom Plans.
Exceptions to these terms and conditions may be possible to obtain with a custom plan. Please contact
sales@maptiler.com
2
.
Fees & Taxes
Fees.
Customer agrees to pay all fees incurred from usage of the Service, as calculated by MapTiler’s records. The applicable rates are based on Subscription Plans specified at
https://www.maptiler.com/cloud/pricing/
or your Custom Plan with MapTiler.
All charges are non-refundable unless expressly prohibited by applicable law.
Taxes.
Our listed fees do not include taxes. You agree to pay any and all incurred sales/use, gross receipts, value-added, GST, personal property or other relevant tax (including any interest and penalties) with respect to the transactions and payments under these Terms.
3
.
User Account & Content
Account And Usage.
The customer maintains responsibility for the security and confidentiality of their access credentials to the Service.
Any usage associated with the customer's account(s) is solely the customer's responsibility, regardless of whether it was authorized or not.
To access the Service, the Customer must only use their authorized access credentials, such as username, API keys, etc.
API Keys.
The Service must be always used with your own API key(s). Customers’ API key(s) are provided via the administration interface of the Service. The Customer is responsible to:
Monitor Use Of Your Keys.
You are responsible for all use of your API keys and the Service. Please monitor the usage and set appropriate limits and restrictions to protect your API keys.
Report Misuse.
MapTiler may, at their own discretion, block a particular API key if Customer notifies us of a potential misuse of such key.
Use Own Key.
You must only use your own API keys. The usage of someone else’s API key is not permitted and may result in termination of your access to the Service.
Third Party Access.
Customers shall not facilitate or permit any third party to use Customers’ account to:
Access or disclose MapTiler map content.
Deploy the Service for the benefit of third parties other than users of Customer's Licensed Application.
Deploy the Service in a way that makes any of it accessible to the public.
Try to avoid or change licensing conditions MapTiler implements.
4
.
Service Usage
Services.
The Service includes the following APIs and components:
Maps API.
Service of base maps loaded into web-based or mobile applications.
Static Maps API.
Service for static map images loaded into applications/ websites or in graphic design, from pre-defined styles or Customers’ own design.
Rendered Tiles API.
Service for integration of rendered raster map tiles into applications/websites. Pre-rendered map tiles in various styles.
Data API.
Service for management, retrieval and manipulation of geospatial data. Developers can seamlessly incorporate geospatial data into their applications or services.
Geocoding API.
Service for place and address search. Geocoding is the process of transforming place names into geographical coordinates.
Geolocation API.
Service for retrieving the geographic location information of users based on their IP address. You are able to serve content explicitly targeting them.
Coordinates API.
Service for conversions and calculations related to geographic coordinates. It offers functions to convert between different coordinate systems.
Customize Tool.
Service for customization maps online. Design ideally looking maps for your web and mobile apps. Switch language, change colors, and select fonts to match your brand.
GeoData Hosting.
Service for hosting spatial data. Global web based GIS hosting for large tiled geodata (MBTiles, GeoPackage) on reliable infrastructure.
Routing API.
Service for routing and other spatial searches and analysis on transportation networks, such as finding a route between two or more points, distribution areas between several locations and similar.
Elevation API.
Service for returning the elevation (height above sea level) of given geographic coordinates.
Beta Services.
If MapTiler offers any beta services to Customer(s), the Customer agrees to use them only for internal evaluation or testing (“Beta”).
MapTiler reserves the right to modify, discontinue or suspend Customers’ access to or use of Beta at any time, with or without notice. Beta is provided "as is" without any express or implied warranties, obligations, SLAs, liabilities, or representations of any kind.
Export Control.
The customer certifies that neither they nor their affiliates are a Restricted Person as defined by Swiss, US, EU, and UK law and are in compliance with all applicable Export Control Laws.
Responsibility For End User Usage.
MapTiler prohibits Customers from allowing end users to access or use the Service in ways that violate the Terms. The Customer is required to promptly notify MapTiler in writing if they become aware of any misappropriate or unauthorized use of the Service.
5
.
Permitted Usage
Research & Development.
To develop online, desktop, or mobile applications and services.
Display Content To End Users.
To display the Service’s map content to end users via your applications and services.
Limited Prints.
To produce printed maps for an internal purpose (e.g. company flyers) with a maximum size of A4 at 300 DPI or equivalent density in vector format, with a maximum print circulation as defined by the limits of the selected Subscription.
Limited Videos.
To produce motion pictures, videos, or animations for usage in internet channels (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.) with a maximum 100,000 subscribers.
MapTiler attribution is required to be shown on screen while the map is displayed, unless otherwise agreed in writing.
Non-commercial Derivative Work.
To produce derivative vector datasets for non-commercial purposes or for OpenStreetMap only.
Usage Of Documented APIs.
To use the Service(s) via documented APIs only.
End-user Device Caching.
Results of requests can be stored in a temporary personal cache (browser cache, mobile app cache, etc.) for use by a single end-user only.
6
.
Usage Requiring Custom Agreement
Proxy.
Unless otherwise agreed in writing with MapTiler, individual end-users must generate direct requests directly to MapTiler infrastructure or its global CDN partner, specifically via
https://api.maptiler.com/
.
Upon request, with MapTiler's approval and additional fees incurred, the Service may be used via a Customers’ proxy server.
Export Usage.
Unless otherwise agreed in writing with MapTiler, it is prohibited to export map content for usage outside the Service.
Bulk Downloading.
Unless otherwise agreed in writing with MapTiler, it is prohibited to batch or excessive bulk download of map tiles or otherwise use the Service beyond the limits of these Terms.
Only bulk downloading allowed is for the Geocoding API service. The attribution of the database created has to be clearly marked either as part of the database or in a separate file attached to the database.
Export Results Of Search Services.
Results of the search services, such as Geolocation API, Geocoding API and Routing API, are allowed for usage outside of the Service.
7
.
Prohibited Usage
Reverse Engineering.
The Customer shall not modify, disassemble, decompile, or otherwise reverse engineer the Service, nor attempt to derive any source code, ideas, or underlying structure from the Service.
Server-side Proxy & Caching.
It is prohibited to store, save, and/or redistribute any map content from a server-side cache or temporary storage or by using a screenshot or other static image, instead of directly accessing via our APIs.
Commercial Derivatives.
Except as expressly permitted by these Terms, Customer shall not trace, derive or extract, map content, data and/or information from the Service.
The Customer shall not use the Service to develop, test, validate, and/or improve any other service or dataset that is a substitute to the Service, including any component thereof.
Account Sharing And Unauthorized Access.
It is prohibited to share user account access credentials to have an individual’s account shared among multiple people. Interfering with, disrupting, or attempting to gain unauthorized access to any of MapTiler's accounts, services, or infrastructure is prohibited.
Obfuscation.
The Customer shall not modify, hide, or delete any product identification, rights, or notices included in the Service.
Irresponsible Use Of Service.
The Customer is prohibited from using the Service to:
Disseminate abusive, obscene, pornographic, defamatory, harassing, grossly offensive, vulgar, threatening, or malicious material.
Create databases of personally identifying information that infringes on basic human rights or civil liberties of individuals on the basis of protected classifications under applicable laws (e.g. race, gender, gender expression or identity, sexual orientation, religion, age, national origin).
Violate the intellectual property or proprietary rights of any person, including MapTiler.
Be used in the operation of a product or service where failure or use could result in death, personal injury, or environmental/property damage.
Host, transmit, or provide information subject to applicable government regulations, including but not limited to health information, financial information, or consumer-reporting information.
8
.
Service Availability & Support
Service Availability.
The Service availability is provided on the best effort basis. We do the maximum to provide the highest service level availability (SLA), including but not limited to the provision of high-availability infrastructure setup, backups, automated failover, and more.
Incidents related to the Service usage and availability can be reported at
https://status.maptiler.com/
, via email or via Twitter @maptilerstatus.
Support.
Support for the Service is provided on the best effort basis. We do our best to respond to all submitted tickets within two (2) business days, with priority given to critical requests which impact service availability and usage.
Support tickets can be submitted via the MapTiler Support portal at
https://documentation.maptiler.com/hc/en-us/requests/new
or via email to
support@maptiler.com
Custom SLA & Premium Support.
A custom service level agreement with the ability to request service credits in case of outages may be agreed between MapTiler and you separately as part of a custom agreement.
A Premium Support agreement, with priority ticket resolution, access to a hotline, and response time guarantees may also be agreed separately.
Follow us on
Language
English
Deutsch
Español
日本語
Français
Português
Čeština
Company
About us
Careers
Press
Become a partner
Contact us
Usage
Industries
Mapbox alternative
Google Maps alternative
Geolayers
Maps for games
Resources
Documentation
Showcases & tools
Attribution free map
Open source
Support
Connect25 Conference
©
2026
MapTiler. All rights reserved.
Security
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Cookie settings